QUESTION1:
(a)
Briefly explain the role of HTTP in web communications:

Answer:
HTTP is an application protocol for transferring hypertext (e.g. HTML).
It is a request-response protocol in the client-server computing model.
It was designed to permit intermediate network elements to improve or enable communications
between Clients and servers. 


(b)
Why is HTTP 1.0 called a stateless protocol?

Answer:
A stateless protocol means that the server maintains no information about the clients past
requests, which holds true for HTTP 1.0.



QUESTION 2:
Describe how an e-commerce site can keep a purchase record of each of its customers using cookies.

Answer:
Cookies maintain the state at the sender/receiver over multiple HTTP transactions.
They have six parameters:
	- Name of cookie
	- Value of cookie
	- Expiration of cookie
	- Path the cookie is valid for
	- Domain the cookie is valid for
	- The need for a secure connection.
This alllows the site to keep a record of a user by identifying them and storing their information.
In the case of an e-commerce website it can be used to keep a record of a user's purchase history.



QUESTION 3:
Access link rate: 15Mbps
LAN rate: 100Mbps
Average Object Size: 960,000 bits = 0.96Mb
Average request rate: 15 requests/second
RTT: 2 seconds

(a)
Find the average response time.

Answer:
△ = average_object_size / Access_link_rate
△ = 0.96 / 15
△ = 0.064 s/r

B = 15 r/s

Average access delay = △ (1-△ B)

(0.064)/△ (1- △ B)
(0.064)/(1 - (0.064)(15)) = 1.6 seconds

Average repsonse time = Average_access_Delay + average_internet_delay
		      = 1.6 + 2 = 3.6 seconds



(b)
Find the total repsonse time if a cache is installed in the institutional LAN with a miss rate
of 0.4 using above data.

Answer:
Miss rate = 0.4

Average access delay = △ /(1-MissRate△ B)
		     = 0.064 / (1-0.4(0.064)(15))	
		     = 0.104 seconds

Average response time = 0.104 + 2 = 2.104 seconds

Total respsonse delay = (0.6*0) + (0.4*2.104) = 0.842 seconds



QUESTION 4:
(a)
Consider what happens when a browser, running in some user's host, requests te URL:
somesite.com/index.html.
In order for the user's host to be able to send a HTTP request message to the web server
www.somesite.com. 
Explain the steps through which the IP address for such a hostname is obtained by the client.

Answer:
	1. Firstly, the client queries the ISP of the IP of www.somesite.com.
	2. The ISP queries the root server to find IP address of .com DNS server.
	3. ISP queries .com server to find IP address of somesite.com DNS server.
	4. ISP queries somesite.com to find IP address of www.somesite.com DNS server.
	5. ISP returns IP address of www.somesite.com to the client.
	6. Client is now able to access the host. 


(b)
What is DNS?

Answer:
DNS stands for Domain Name System.
It is a hierarchial decentralised naming system for resources connected to the internet.
It assigns a hierarchy of names to IP addresses.
(e.g.) Google.ie = 209.85.203.94


(c)
What protocol does DNS use?

Answer:
Root servers resolve top level domains... (.ie, .com, .net, ...)
TLD servers are repsonsible for their respective sub-domains (google.ie, seamus-woods.com, ...)
Authoritative servers are responsible for their sub-domains (foo.bar.net, ...)

(d)
What would the implications be if all the DNS servers worldwide went offline at the same time?

Answer:
If all of the DNS servers in the world went down at the same time, domain names would be 
unresolvable, however if you knew the exact IP address of the domain you could still access it.



QUESTION 5:
(a)
Describe in detail the operating and benefit provied by a Content Distribution Network (CDN):

Answer:
CDN's were built to aleviate the stress that is on the internet.
It works by caching links to certain content. 
Example.. A user in Japan wants to access a website in Milan:

Before CDNs:
	The user in Japan would need their connection to hop around the world to get to the 
	endpoint for the Milan site.

With CDNs:
	The CDN server neares the user in Japan will have cached the Milan site's content
	and deliver it to the JApan user without their connection travelling around the globe
	saving much needed time and resulting in much greater performance. 

Advantages of a business using a CDN:
	- Performance
	- Availability
	- Intelligence
	- Security


(b)
What is the role of DNS in a Content Distribution Network (CDN)?

Answer:
The DNS smartly chooses the best server to handle the clients request.
Example: If a user is trying to access a site while in Ireland, the DNS will resolve the sites
	 IP address to their server in Ireland, however is a user is trying to access a site
	 while in the US, the DNS will resolve the sites IP address to their server in US.


(c)
Does the DNS have to be modified to support the CDN?

Answer:
You could say that the DNS would need to be modified to accept alternative query names or 
the contrary that it doesn't need to be modified as it will use the authoritative server to
determine the client's location and then returns the CDN server selection. 


(d)
What information, if any, must a CDN provide to a DNS?

Answer:
Not entirely sure, but maybe the IP address of the request, so as to know the general location
of the client and return the server closest to that location. 
Server that the CDN points to?



QUESTION 6:
(a)
What is the role of a SIP registrar?

Answer:
Session Initiation Protocol(SIP) is a communications protocol for signalling and controlling
multimedia communication sessions in applications of internet telephony for voice and video 
calls, in private IP telephone systems as well as instant messaging over IP networks. 

It defines a specific format of the messages exchanged and the sequence of communicatons
for operation of the participants. 


(b)
How is the role of a SIP registrar different from that of a home agent in Mobile IP?

Answer:
?



QUESTION 7:
How can multimedia application recover from packet loss without the need for retransmission?
Describe 3 methods.

Answer:
?



QUESTION 8:
(a)
In BitTorrent, suppose Alice provides chunks to Bob throughout a 30-second interval.
Will Bob necessarily return the favor and provide chunks to Alice in the same interval?

Answer:
Not necessarily.
Bob will only supply data to his top 4 peers and a random 5th peer.
If Alice doesn't provide enough data to be in Bob's top 4, Bob may not be sending data in return.


(b)
Consider Trudy joins the BitTorrent without processing any chunks. 
Without any chunks, she cannot become a top-four uploader for any other peers, since she has
nothing to upload. 
Then how will True get her first chunk?

Answer:
Firstly, there are people called seeds in BitTorrent, who will simply not expect anything in 
return for sending any packets, as they already have the completed file.
Others will have different leach settings and will only expect 1 packet in return for every 
4 sent, or some will have a 1:1 ratio for sent and received packets.
So there will always be a seed with a completed file that will supply a new user with their
first chunk of data.
